Mason villagers are garbage cans. And
you're probably thinking, "What did that
poor mason do to you?" But I actually
mean this as a good thing. Mason
villagers are super useful like a
garbage can because they take a bunch of
your trash items. First, when mining,
you often wind up with tons of
cobblestone that you don't need. But if
you smelt that, you can trade 20 stone
for an emerald with a mason. And if you
get a silk touch pickaxe, you can get
emeralds even easier. But they get
better because when you level them up,
they have a chance to buy granite,
andite, and diorite from you, which is
amazing because these blocks rarely get
used, but are everywhere. So, at least
you can turn them into emeralds. And
best of all, one really common way to
get XP is by mining quartz. But if you
do this, you often get way more quartz
than you need. But you can trade quartz
with a mason for emeralds and get extra
XP for